Introduce src/lib directory for reusable reactors (#11)
lf-lang/rfcs: rfcs/0011-reusable-reactors-folder.md

```shell
├── root
│   ├── bin/
│   ├── include/
│   ├── src/
│   │  ├── lib/ # Directory for storing reusable reactors
│   │  │   ├── Input.lf # Ex: reactor capturing external inputs (e.g., Microphone, Camera)
│   │  │   └── ComputerVision.lf # Ex: reactor performing computer vision tasks (e.g., object detection, face recognition)
│   ├── src-gen/
│   ├── fed-gen/ # Only for federated programs (instead of src-gen)
│   └── Lingo.toml # Configuration file for Lingo Package Manager
```
The `lib/` directory within the `src/` folder is designated for reusable reactors, making them shareable across multiple projects and minimizing the need for reimplementation. In contrast, the rest of the `src/` folder is reserved for executable programs that may utilize reactors from the `src/lib/` directory during development. Note that the content of directories such as `src-gen`, `fed-gen`, and `include` are outside the scope of this RFC.

This structured approach promotes efficient code reuse, simplifies integration of external resources, and fosters collaborative development practices within the LF community.

### Supporting reactors
[supporting-reactors]: #supporting-reactors

> According to this proposal, the `src/lib/` directory is designated for reusable reactors, while the rest of `src/` directory is reserved for executable programs. In some projects, there may be reactors that are used internally by a library but are not intended to be exposed to its users. These can be considered "supporting reactors". Currently, the Lingua Franca language lacks of visibility concept, so there's no clear way to designate certain reactors as internal and not intended for public use at language level. To address this, we propose adopting a convention of using a `private/` directory within the `lib/` folder. This directory can be placed at any level within `lib/`, indicating that its contents are private and should not be exposed to users. It's important to note that this is purely a suggested convention, not something to be enforced at the language or compiler level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to this proposal, the `src/lib/` directory is designated for reusable reactors, while the rest of `src/` directory is reserved for executable programs. In some projects, there may be reactors that are used internally by a library but are not intended to be exposed to its users. These can be considered "supporting reactors". Currently, the Lingua Franca language lacks a visibility concept, so there's no clear way to designate certain reactors as internal and not intended for public use at language level. To address this, we propose adopting a convention of using a `private/` directory within the `lib/` folder. This directory can be placed at any level within `lib/`, indicating that its contents are private and should not be exposed to users. It's important to note that this is purely a suggested convention, not something to be enforced at the language or compiler level.
```

For example:

```shell
├── root
│   ├── bin/
│   ├── include/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── lib/
│   │   │   ├── Input.lf
│   │   │   ├── ComputerVision.lf
│   │   │   └── private/
│   │   │       ├── SupportingReactor1.lf
│   │   │       └── SupportingReactor2.lf
│   ├── src-gen/
│   ├── fed-gen/  # Only for federated programs (instead of src-gen)
│   └── Lingo.toml
```

In this structure, the `private/` directory contains `SupportingReactor1.lf` and `SupportingReactor2.lf`. These reactors are intended to be extended by other reactors or imported for specific functions, but are not meant to be exposed to the library’s end users (i.e., developers). This convention helps maintain a clear separation between public and internal components of the library.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Here are some potential drawbacks of this proposal:
- **Lack of flexibility**: The proposed structure is rigid and may not be suitable for all projects. It may require additional modifications or extensions to accommodate specific requirements.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

> ### Alternative Names for the `lib/` Folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Alternative Names for the `./src/lib/` Folder
```

> The folder containing reusable reactors has been named `lib/` since the idea is to have a centralized location for all reusable reactors that can be imported into other projects, similar to how libraries are used in other programming languages. However, we’re open to discussing different names for this folder if the proposed one causes confusion among developers. Some alternative names that could be considered include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The folder containing reusable reactors has been named `./src/lib/` since the idea is to have a centralized location for all reusable reactors that can be imported into other projects, similar to how libraries are used in other programming languages. However, we’re open to discussing different names for this folder if the proposed one causes confusion among developers. Some alternative names that could be considered include:
```

- `reactors_lib/` or `lfc_reactors/`
- `libraries/`, `lfc_libraries/` or `lfc_lib/`
- `reusables/`
- `modules/`

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `lib/`
 
```

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Here are some potential drawbacks of this proposal:
- **Lack of flexibility**: The proposed structure is rigid and may not be suitable for all projects. It may require additional modifications or extensions to accommodate specific requirements.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

### Alternative Names for the `./src/lib/` Folder
The folder containing reusable reactors has been named `./src/lib/` since the idea is to have a centralized location for all reusable reactors that can be imported into other projects, similar to how libraries are used in other programming languages. However, we’re open to discussing different names for this folder if the proposed one causes confusion among developers. Some alternative names that could be considered include:
- `reactors_lib/` or `lfc_reactors/`
- `libraries/`, `lfc_libraries/` or `lfc_lib/`
- `reusables/`
- `modules/`

>  - `lib/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `lib/`
```

> # Future possibilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Maintaining a fixed structure is crucial because it allows developers to quickly identify where specific components, configurations, and resources are located, which in turn reduces the time spent searching for files and fosters efficient collaboration among team members. Therefore, to achieve these objective, this RFC proposes implementing a clear and standardized project structure for developers to follow. This standardized approach ensures projects are consistently organized, making them easier to comprehend, maintain, and share. Moreover, this structure facilitates the integration of external libraries and tools, thereby fostering a more collaborative development environment.

# Proposed Implementation
[proposed-implementation]: #proposed-implementation

### New project Structure

> The current structure of a LF project is organized as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the structure of an LF package is organized something like this:
```

```shell
├── root
│   ├── bin/       # Binary executables

> │   ├── include/   # Header files

Reviewer 2: This is pretty target specific. Shouldn't this be up to the target? There is no general purpose for a directory with header files.

Reviewer 2: From the discussion, it became clear that this was merely intended as an example. Let me propose a minor textual change.

│   ├── src/       # LF programs
│   ├── src-gen/   # Generated code for local LF programs
│   └── fed-gen/   # Generated code for federated programs (instead of src-gen)
```

To enhance the project structure, the following additions are proposed:

- **`lib/`**: Directory for storing reusable reactors.
- **`Lingo.toml`**: Configuration file crucial for project sharing, storing Lingo configuration details including external LF projects to include (refer to [Lingo Documentation](https://github.com/lf-lang/lingo?tab=readme-ov-file#the-toml-based-package-configurations) for further details). The internal structure of this file will be discussed in another RFC.

The refined structure will appear as follows:
```shell
├── root
│   ├── bin/
│   ├── include/

> │   ├── lib/ # Directory for storing reusable reactors

Reviewer 2: This directory also contains LF sources, so it seems more natural to me to nest this under `src` and have `src/lib` as the location for local library reactors.

Reviewer 3: `./lib/` should be used for all reactor that you want to export. 

Reactors that are reusable, but you don't want to export don't belong into `./lib`

Reviewer 2: If that's true, then why do we need private dirs?

Reviewer 2: Summary from the meeting: there is a slight preference for `./src/lib` over `./lib`. Some reasons for this:
 - at some point we might want to distinguish between precompiled modules and open-source ones
 - it's more reflective of the current usage patterns, where we often already put reusable reactors in `./src/lib`

│   │   ├── Input.lf # Ex: reactor capturing external inputs (e.g., Microphone, Camera)
│   │   └── ComputerVision.lf # Ex: reactor performing computer vision tasks (e.g., object detection, face recognition)
│   ├── src/
│   ├── src-gen/
│   ├── fed-gen/ # Only for federated programs (instead of src-gen)
│   └── Lingo.toml # Configuration file for Lingo Package Manager
```
The `lib/` directory is intended to store only reusable reactors, allowing them to be shared across multiple projects and reducing the need for reimplementation. The `src/` folder, on the other hand, is for executable programs that might use reactors defined in the `lib/` folder to develop a program. Generally, `src/` should contain only files that the developer compiles and executes. Note that the content of directories such as `src-gen`, `fed-gen`, and `include` are outside the scope of this RFC.

This structured approach promotes efficient code reuse, simplifies integration of external resources, and fosters collaborative development practices within the LF community.

### Supporting reactors
[supporting-reactors]: #supporting-reactors

> According to this proposal, the `lib/` directory is designated for reusable reactors, while the `src/` directory is reserved for executable programs. In some projects, there may be reactors that are used internally by a library but are not intended to be exposed to its users. These can be considered "supporting reactors." To clearly mark such reactors as internal and not for public use, we propose using a `private/` directory within the `lib/` folder. This directory can exist at any level of hierarchy within `lib/` and signifies that its contents are private and should not be exposed to users.

Reviewer 2: > internal and not for public use, we propose using a `private/` directory within the `lib/` folder. This directory can exist at any level of hierarchy within `lib/` and signifies that its contents are private and should not be exposed to users.

What is meant with "public use" here, and what is a "user"? Wouldn't it suffice to just not put the file in `lib` if it's not meant to be exposed? It seems unusual to work a scoping mechanism into the filesystem layout. Is there any precedent for this in other language, or did we come up with this ourselves?

Reviewer 3: I personally see it as a hack. 

Because the LF language doesn't have any concept of visibility or modules.

Reviewer 2: We discussed this during the Monday meeting and it became clear to me that the intent here was to propose a convention, and not to implement or enforce any checks. Please revise the text to clarify this intent.

For example:

```shell
├── root
│   ├── bin/
│   ├── include/
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── Input.lf
│   │   ├── ComputerVision.lf
│   │   └── private/
│   │       ├── SupportingReactor1.lf
│   │       └── SupportingReactor2.lf
│   ├── src/
│   ├── src-gen/
│   ├── fed-gen/  # Only for federated programs (instead of src-gen)
│   └── Lingo.toml
```

> In this structure, the `private/` directory contains `SupportingReactor1.lf` and `SupportingReactor2.lf`. These reactors are intended to be extended by other reactors or imported for specific functions, but are not meant to be exposed to users of the library. This convention helps maintain a clear separation between public and internal components of the library.

Reviewer 2: I think it's more common to use a visibility modifier or export statement for stuff like this. What's the reason for doing this in the file system?

Reviewer 2: Presumably, the user we're trying to hide things from is one that pulls a package from a remote repo, Since they use `lingo` for this, we could also put `lingo` in charge of the visibility issue. For instance, one could whitelist or blacklist certain files or directories in the `Lingo.toml` file. This kind of mechanism you see a lot in linters, package managers, etc.

Reviewer 3: Lingo only drags files around. 

I would put this simple check into lfc:

```
if "/private/" in include_path:
  print("warning you are trying to import private files")
```

Reviewer 2: I was thinking the proposal was to build checks into `lfc` to enforce visibility, but this appears not to be the case.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Here are some potential drawbacks of this proposal:
- **Lack of flexibility**: The proposed structure is rigid and may not be suitable for all projects. It may require additional modifications or extensions to accommodate specific requirements.

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

### Alternative Names for the `lib/` Folder
The folder containing reusable reactors has been named `lib/` since the idea is to have a centralized location for all reusable reactors that can be imported into other projects, similar to how libraries are used in other programming languages. However, we’re open to discussing different names for this folder if the proposed one causes confusion among developers. Some alternative names that could be considered include:
- `reactors_lib/` or `lfc_reactors/`
- `libraries/`, `lfc_libraries/` or `lfc_lib/`
- `reusables/`
- `modules/`

### Alternative Design Approach
Another approach could involve placing the lib/ folder under the src/ directory, as illustrated below:
```shell
├── root
│   ├── ...
│   ├── src/

> │   │   ├── lib/ # Directory for storing reusable reactors

Reviewer 2: Yep, I like this better.

Reviewer 3: I don't like this. Why do we need it?

I thought you only want to index reactors inside libraries, and reactors of libraries are located in `./lib`?

Reviewer 2: Need what? Adding lib next to src adds an extra top-level dir; all I'm suggesting is to put it in src instead.

│   │   ├── Main.lf
│   └── ...
```

> This structure nests the `lib/` folder within `src/`, organizing reusable reactors alongside other source files. This approach may enhance clarity and organization, but it may also lead to potential conflicts or inconsistencies in the codebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This structure nests the `lib/` folder within `src/`, organizing reusable reactors alongside other source files. This approach may enhance clarity and organization, but it may also lead to potential conflicts or inconsistencies in the codebase.
```

Please elaborate on the potential of conflicts or inconsistencies.

Reviewer 2: This remained unanswered during the meeting...

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

### Alternative Names for the `lib/` Folder
The folder containing reusable reactors has been named `lib/` since the idea is to have a centralized location for all reusable reactors that can be imported into other projects, similar to how libraries are used in other programming languages. However, we’re open to discussing different names for this folder if the proposed one causes confusion among developers. Some alternative names that could be considered include:
- `reactors_lib/` or `lfc_reactors/`
- `libraries/`, `lfc_libraries/` or `lfc_lib/`
- `reusables/`
- `modules/`

### Alternative Design Approach
Another approach could involve placing the lib/ folder under the src/ directory, as illustrated below:
```shell
├── root
│   ├── ...
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── lib/ # Directory for storing reusable reactors
│   │   ├── Main.lf
│   └── ...
```
This structure nests the `lib/` folder within `src/`, organizing reusable reactors alongside other source files. This approach may enhance clarity and organization, but it may also lead to potential conflicts or inconsistencies in the codebase.

> # Unresolved questions
> [unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions
> 
> Here are some questions worth considering:
> 
> 1. Do you think it's beneficial to have a separate `lib/` directory for reusable reactors?
> 
> 2. Is the proposed design for ‘supporting reactors,’ which involves using a `private/` directory within the `lib/` folder to differentiate between private and exposed reactors, acceptable?
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this part before merging.
